# WEB HACKING RECONNAISSANCE

Recon's all about figuring out an app's attack surface. Therefore, this is a super important pathway to figuring out what the most effective approach we should use is. For instance, knowing if the app uses AWS means we can check for AWS specific vulns.

We'll also do some basic scripting so that should be fun!

### First Steps

Try to manually walk through the app you want to attack first, check all functionalities, look for pages you wouldn't normally think of accessing, etc.
This is a good way of mentally cataloguing the attack surface to yourself before you dive deeper to find out the technology & structure of your target.

## Google Dorking

Google dorking is nothing more than using some advanced google-fu. And even then, it's nothing crazy, but you do tend to want to go a bit more in-depth than you would for day to day googling, such as site, intitle, etc:

---

-  `site:` - Filters results to only show results from selected site

-  `inurl:` - Searches for pages iwth a URL to match our search string. It kind of feels like using REGEX matching but for specific urls, eg:  `inurl: "/dashboard/admin.php" site:example.com`

-  `intitle:` - Finds specific strings in a pages title:  `intitle:"index of" site:example.com`

-  `link:` - Searches for web pages that _contain_ links to a specified URL. This is useful to find documentation etc, eg:  `link:"https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ReDoS"`

-  `filteype:` - Self-explanatory, and self-explanatorily powerful:  `filetype:log site:example.com`

-  `*` - Using a wildcard operator(\*) within searches means any character/series of characters:  `how to hack * using Google`, or even more usefully:  `site:*.example.com` for sniffing out some subdomains.
-  `" "` - Adding quotation marks forces an exact match of our search string:  `"How to hack"`
-  `OR operator(|)` - Logic Operator OR. This is obviously super powerful:  `"how to hack" site:(reddit.com | stackoverflow.com)`
-  `Minus operator(-)` - Exclude certain search results:  `"how to hack websites" -php`

---

Other than searching for subdomains as shown, we can also look for special endpoints that lead to vulns! For instance, if we were to inspect an app's [Kibana Instance (data visualisation)](https://www.elastic.co/kibana/), most Kibana dashboards tend to run using the endpoint of `app/kibana`. This means we can sniff out if our target has an unprotected Kibana dashboard by searching:  `site: example.com inurl:app/kibana`

Also, we can find company resources hosted by a third party, for example S3:  `site:s3.amazonaws.com TARGET_COMPANY_NAME`
We can also look for special extensions! Lets say we think our target has some php vulns:  `site:example.com ext:php`. If we want to be a bit more explicit, let's search poor example.com for text files that contain the string "password":  `site:example.com ext:txt password`

This could be a lot to remember, so check out the [Google Hacking Database](https://www.exploit-db.com/google-hacking-database/) for some search queries to make your life easier! 😏
