## Other Sneaky OSINT Techniques

Other ways to get information are preeetty slick. For instance, we can check our target's job posts for engineering positions, since they usually reveal what technologies they use based on their requirements. We can also check employees out on Linkedin for this info.

We can also look for the employees' Google calendars! You can sometimes gain access to them if they're accidentally public, and often contain meeting notes etc. Also, if we find their social medias, we can scour for any slipups such as pictures of the office showing passwords etc.

Searching for our target's mailing list if they have one can also be useful to gain insight into their tech stack and engineering mentality. Also, if any employees present at conferences etc, they upload slides to SlideShare for reference.

We can also search through pastebin for the trarget company's organization name. Using [PasteHunter](https://github.com/kevthehermit/PasteHunter) can also let us scan for publicly pasted data.

Finally, using archives like [Wayback Machine](https://archive.org/web) is super useful for finding olod endpoints, directory listings, subdomains, URLs, and outdated files that are still in use. [Waybackurls](https://github.com/tomnomnom/waybackurls) can automatically extract endpoints and URLs from the Wayback Machine.

---

## Tech Stack Fingerprinting

Fingerprinting techniques can help us increase our knowledge of the target application. Fingerprinting refers to identifying the software brands and versions that an app/machine uses. This in turn shows us potential avenues of attack due to version/platform specific vulnerabilities that may exist. Let's say that a server's running an old version of Apache. There's prob a couple disclosed vulnerabilities that we can use to try to gain access.

Following that thread, _Common Vulnerabilites and Exposures_ (CVEs for short) is the term that the security commmunity uses for known vulnerabilities. They also Give each CVE a number for reference that we can easily search for on a [CVE database](https://cve.mitre.org/cve/search_cve_list.html).

The simplest way to fingerprint an application is to directly engage with it. We can run `Nmap` on a machine using the `-sv` flag to enable version detection on the port scan:

```
nmap scanme.nmap.org -sV
Starting Nmap 7.60 ( https://nmap.org )
Nmap scan report for scanme.nmap.org (45.33.32.156)
Web Hacking Reconnaissance   79
Host is up (0.065s latency).
Other addresses for scanme.nmap.org (not scanned): 2600:3c01::f03c:91ff:fe18:bb2f
Not shown: 992 closed ports
PORT STATE SERVICE VERSION
22/tcp open ssh OpenSSH 6.6.1p1 Ubuntu 2ubuntu2.13 (Ubuntu Linux; protocol 2.0)
25/tcp filtered smtp
80/tcp open http Apache httpd 2.4.7 ((Ubuntu))
135/tcp filtered msrpc
139/tcp filtered netbios-ssn
445/tcp filtered microsoft-ds
9929/tcp open nping-echo Nping echo
31337/tcp open tcpwrapped
Service Info: OS: Linux; CPE: cpe:/o:linux:linux_kernel
Service detection performed. Please report any incorrect results at https://nmap.org/submit/.
Nmap done: 1 IP address (1 host up) scanned in 9.19 seconds
```

Once that's done, We can use Burp to send an HTTP request to the server to check the HTTP headers that are used, which'll give us insight into the tech stack:

```
Server: Apache/2.0.6 (Ubuntu)
X-Powered-By: PHP/5.0.1
X-Generator: Drupal 8
X-Drupal-Dynamic-Cache: UNCACHEABLE
Set-Cookie: PHPSESSID=abcde;
```

HTTP Headers like `Server` and `X-Powered-By` tend to be good indicators of tech--The `Server` Header usually reveals the software versions running on the server, and `X-Powered-By` reveals the language or server used.

Also, some Headers are tech-specific. For instance, only Drupal uses `X-generator` and `X-Drupal-Dynamic-Cache`. Technology-specific cookies such as `PHPESSID` probably refers to the server using PHP.

HTML source code can also help us provide clues, since many frameworks tend to embed a signature into the source Code. We can look for that by seearchign for phrases like "Powered by", "built with", and "running".

File extensions and overall app structure can also provide clues, such as Django or NextJS specific layouts.

Of course, as you probably expect, we have some tools to automate this process:

-  [Wappalyzer](https://wappalyzzer.com) is a browser extension that identifies content management systems, frameworks, and p-rogramming languages used on a site.
-  [BuiltWith](https://builtwith.com) is a website that shows us which technologies a site's built with.
-  [StackShare](https://stackshare.io) is an online platform that allows devs to share the tech they use. This means that if we can find our target's developers on here, they might have posted their tech stack.
-  [Retire.js](https://retirejs.github.io/retire.js/) is a tool that detects outdated JS libraries and packages.
